# Networking

## OSI Model

3 levels that are usually implemented in the software within the operation system:

- Application
- Presentation
- Session

Protocols that reside in Layer 3 - Network in the OSI Model

- IP
- TCP

## Netmask

- can be represented by Decimal Numbers (Netmask: 255.255.255.0) and Slash Notation (80.212.212.50/32)

## Q & A From w3schools

> Which is the broadcast address in this network: 172.16.24.0/24

172.16.24.255

<details>
  <summary>
    Which one of these is a RFC 1918 ip address?
  </summary>
  172.16.1.30
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    Shortening an IPv6 address means:
  </summary>
  Removing a group of only 0's
</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    What is spoofing?
  </summary>
  Falsifying data, making something appear different than they really are  
</details>

> You need an IDS (Intrusion Detection System) in addition to IPS (Intrusion Prevention System) to be able to both detect and prevent access

False. IPS is also able to detect if positioned correctly in the network

> To be able to detect and block specific file types/documents to be blocked from downloading from the internet, with a firewall, you need:

A Next-Generation Firewall with layer 7 features

> A cookie can not be used to control a users session/state

False. Cookies are often used for tracking sessions

> Which types of packets can be used to determine if a system is alive on the network?

ICMP Echo Request, ICMP Timestamp Request, TCP SYN, TCP ACK

> ARP Scanning can only be used to identify hosts/systems on the LAN

true

> NMAP Timing options (-T) can be used to to avoid detection by

Limit speed on how fast hosts are scanned

> What is a strobe of data?

A sudden increase of traffic in the network.

> What is IDOR?

Insecure Direct Object Reference

> What is SQL injection?

It is used to inject malicious code to a database server, through a query

> What is best practice in defending against SQL injection?

Sanitizing users input in a web application

> What is CSP - Content Security Processing

A strict way of controlling where javascript is allowed to be exectued from

> Which order of security protocols is correct, going from least to most secure?

WEP, WPA, WPA2, WPA3

> Using the same strong password, with high entropy, on multiple sites is good practice

False. If one site is breached/hacked and stores passwords in clear text, your password is now in hackers hands

> SIEM is commonly used to

Do a real-time analysis of security alerts generated by applications, hosts and network hardware

> Classifications of incidents should generally be according to

Category, sensitivity, criticality

> The 6 stages of PICERL are:

Preparation, Identification, Containment, Eradication, Recovery, Lessons Learned

> In which phase of PICERL is blocking attackers usually done?

Containment
